---
title: "Happy-Number"
question_id: "202"
question_link: "https://leetcode.com/problems/happy-number/"
difficulty: "Easy"
---

1. The input is a number `n`
2. Determine if this number is a happy number if yes return True else False

The definition of a happy number is essentially first you replace the number by the sum of the squares of its digits, repeat the process until the number equals 1 (where it loops forever as one), or if it loops endlessly where the number never reaches 1. If it ends in 1 it is happy.

This is doable with a hash set where we can check the set for if the current number in the loop has appeared before or not if it hasn't then we add it to the set, if it has we stop the loop. Automatically assume that if it reaches 1 the loop ends, otherwise if any other number appears we can return False.

But the most annoying part of this question is not checking if the number has appeared before its the iteration part of adding the squares of its digits. We need to create a secondary helper function which essentially sums the squares in the number.

In order to do this we need to understand some math... 

First we must make sure that the loop will run until no number exists inside of the current number. Inside the loop we extract the last digit of n by using digit = n % 10 which is modulo division where it will basically give the remainder after dividing by 10.

Then we square the digits ez and then add the squared digit to the output. Once that is completed we need to remove the last digit in the output by using floor division on it n = n // 10 this ensures that when we loop we won't consider the digit which has already been taken. 

```python
class Solution(object):
    def isHappy(self, n):
        """
        :type n: int
        :rtype: bool
        """
        # Create a hash set
        visit = set()

        while n not in visit:
            visit.add(n)
            n = self.sumOfSquares(n)

            if n == 1:
                return True
        
        return False 

    def sumOfSquares(self, n):
        # Compute sum of squares of digits
        output = 0

        while n:
            digit = n % 10
            digit = digit ** 2
            output += digit
            n = n // 10
        return output
```

> Time Complexity : `O(log n)`
> 
> Space Complexity : `O(log n)`