---
title: "Valid-Anagram"
question_id: "242"
question_link: "https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-anagram/description/"
difficulty: "Easy"
---

1. Solution one is a sorting method based on my intuition we can essentially deduce that because it is a anagram it must have the same amount of string characters. So all we have to do is to check if the `length` of `s` matches `t`. If it doesn't then it returns `False` otherwise its `True` if we sort the values and compare and it does indeed match.

Wait... Do I need to even include the if function lol probably not but i'll just keep it.


```python
class Solution(object):
    def isAnagram(self, s, t):
        """
        :type s: str
        :type t: str
        :rtype: bool
        """

        if len(s) != len(t):
            return False
        return sorted(s) == sorted(t)
```

> Time Complexity : `O(nlogn+mlogm)`
> 
> Space Complexity : `O(1) or O(n+m) dependent on sorting algorithm`

2. I don't like hashmaps... Even after watching the video it's still not intuitive enough for me. But essentially we are counting the amount of times each character appears inside the anagrams. This is done by creating hashmaps where we first check if the `Lengths` of values are the same if not return `False`, else create two dictionaries for counting how many time a character appears like this shown below.

```python
s = "abb"
countS = {'a': 1, 'b': 2}
```

Then afterwrads it loops thorugh the entire length of either `s or t` since they should be the same and adds a count for the character at index `i`. 

```python
countS[s[i]] = 1 + countS.get(s[i], 0)
```

The `.get` Returns the current count if the key exists otherwise it returns 0 if it doesn't. Finally we just compare the characters count and if its the same its `True` else its `False` This is also to prevent crashing because python will try to look for the key in countS when a value first appears but realizes it doesn't exist so it raises a KeyError. Because it has no values it dies.

```python
class Solution(object):
    def isAnagram(self, s, t):
        """
        :type s: str
        :type t: str
        :rtype: bool
        """
        if len(s) != len(t):
            return False
        countS, countT = {}, {}

        for i in range(len(s)):
            countS[s[i]] = 1 + countS.get(s[i], 0)
            countT[t[i]] = 1 + countT.get(t[i], 0)
        
        for c in countS:
            if countS[c] != countT.get(c, 0):
                return False
        
        return True
```

> Time Complexity : `O(n + m)`
> 
> Space Complexity : `O(1)`