---
title: "Group Anagrams"
question_id: "49"
question_link: "https://leetcode.com/problems/group-anagrams/description/"
difficulty: "Medium"
---

1. Given an array of strings 
2. Group the anagrams together you can return the answer in any order

Once again this question is another Hashtable problem when in doubt HASHTABLE HAHAHAHHA, i've slowly learnt to love it little by little by redoing these questions. 

The way we do this question is first we use defaultdict which basically sets a automatic value when initializing this essentially makes it so that we don't have to worry about when the dictionary is empty because there is already a dummy value inside. 

In this case we use defaultdict(list) meaning the dictionary starts with a [] of there is no corresponding value.

Once we initialize a default dictionary we then loop through the values using for words in str this essentially assigns each word in the list as the variable word. Each loop we will first sort the current word based off alphanumeric.

The sorted word is then added to a variable known as sorted word. When we do sorting of a current word in the list we do not want to just sort the original word we want the new variable so that we can use the sorted word as the key while the none sorted stays as the value which we can later append to the list.

So we sort it using sortedWord = ''.join(sorted(word)) and then use the sorted word to add to the existing list inside the dict in correspondence to the current value.

So for example word_dict[sorted_word].append(word).

Finally we can return the dictionary as a list however in order to do this we must use the list() function which returns iterables as a list.

But we also care about the objects inside the list so we have to return it with values() as well, values() method is a dictionary method that returns a view object containing all the values in the dictionary.

list(word_dict.values())

```python
class Solution(object):
    def groupAnagrams(self, strs):
        """
        :type strs: List[str]
        :rtype: List[List[str]]
        """
        
        # sorting where the sorted anagram is the key and hte value is a list filled with the normal word

        from collections import defaultdict

        word_dict = defaultdict(list)

        for word in strs:
            word_sorted = ''.join(sorted(word))
            word_dict[word_sorted].append(word)

        return list(word_dict.values())
```

> Time Complexity : `O(m * n log n)`
> 
> Space Complexity : `O(m * n)`